[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega is a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> --that come
home to themselves.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths meet.
>> A house with many rooms.
>> It's a ticket
into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirits.
>> A sense of what it would be
like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment.
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You're always
going to desert.
>> Hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> A tool for unity.
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm a writer, and I teach
workshops for the bereaved.
For most of my life,
I've been a teacher.
And up until 10 years
ago, I've worked
with kids of all ages
in different schools.
And about eight years
ago, my husband and I
were co-teaching a
kindergarten together.
And we were kind
of the mom and pop
of this little private school.
It was a really
lovely experience.
And then everything changed.
He got melanoma cancer.
You know, I was a
child of the '60s.
And I had done all kinds
of spiritual practices
and been on a lot
of different paths.
But actually, I
discovered in that moment
that I had never
committed to anything.
And I wanted to be
able to say to Jim--
because he came home to die--
that no stranger's hand
would ever touch him.
So for many months, I
spent time in the house
with his mother caring for him.
And I had my feet
held to the fire.
And I had to decide what
was going to sustain me.
And the culture
that we live in--
it's the visible world
that we believe in.
You don't believe in
things that are invisible.
There's always kind of
that nagging feeling
like you need proof
or you want something
extraordinary to happen
before you'll take the leap.
So I was very afraid.
And I was also very determined.
And I discovered, actually,
while taking care of Jim
that I was capable
of a lot more than I
thought I was capable of.
And I also discovered
that I had the capacity
to feel things that I was not
aware before that I could feel.
For example, I would
put my hands on him
and discover that I
could take his pain away.
Or I would discover that
I was capable of feeling
what pain felt like through
the prickling in my palms.
And I also started to
have extraordinary dreams.
And this continued
after he died.
And so I decided that
what I needed to do
was to make my grieving a
path of spiritual research,
I guess you could say.
I started journaling
and spending
a lot of time by myself.
I didn't have very much money,
but I just kind of withdrew.
I had great support.
But I spent a lot of
time writing and thinking
and praying and trying to figure
out where I was going next.
And I finally
decided that I wanted
to-- even though I had
been a teacher all my life,
I wanted to fulfill a lifelong
dream and become a writer,
partly to tell the story
of what I was experiencing.
And things happened very fast.
Within a month, I got an agent.
But I still hadn't
been published.
And then about five
months after Jim died,
I had a fire ceremony
with some women friends
to celebrate discovering that
there was some of me that was
going to rise out of the ashes.
I said I felt like a
phoenix or was starting
to feel like a phoenix.
And about two
weeks after that, I
had a live wild river duck
show up inside my wood stove,
sitting on the ashes.
I couldn't believe it.
And I knew it was significant.
I couldn't figure it out.
But in the middle of
the night, I woke up.
And I went, oh my God.
Jim sent me a phoenix.
So I wrote him a
letter immediately,
telling him I figured it out,
recognizing his sense of humor.
And I submitted that letter
to the local newspaper
to share with the community
what had happened.
And that was my first
published piece.
The newspaper invited
me to write a column.
That led to magazine work.
And within three years,
which was the goal
that I had set for myself
at age 48 with only a couple
of nickels to rub together
and no retirement in sight--
at the end of three years, I
had a six-figure book contract.
I would say that in some
ways, I felt very blessed
through the experiences
that I've had
and through really taking
that leap of faith and saying,
you know, if I don't go here.
I may not learn
something extraordinary.
And that's what I
really want to do.
It's really put my feet on
a different kind of ground
and given me a
direction and certainly
a certainty that I
didn't have before.
Life continues to
be extraordinary.
And I guess if I was to say
what were key things in terms
of what I learned, it was
that you have to ask for help.
You have to set a goal, and
you have to ask for help.
You have to give
thanks even when
you don't feel like
there's anything to be
thankful for when it's hard.
And above all, you
have to take the leap.
You have to know
that when you go out
on a limb that it's important
to keep your heart open
and that something
wonderful will hold you.
>> I'm a physician who works
in an emergency room in Fall
River, Massachusetts.
Even though I'm public
speaking-phobic,
I decided that this was a
story that needed to be told.
I've recently lost a
very good friend of mine
to ovarian cancer.
And we had quite a journey
together while she was ill
and while she was dying.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Everything that we talked about
together before she died--
all of the spiritual literature,
which I basically consumed
by the volume while she was
dying to help her through
the process--
was actually all soul.
Neither one of us really had any
traditional religious beliefs
that we could hang onto.
But she and I both
needed something
to hang onto while
she was dying.
It was interesting.
She actually drew me
into this process,
saying that you need to
do this journey with me
because, as a physician,
you need to change things.
You need to change medicine
into something that is not
cold and hard and scientific.
But you need to help me
tell the world that it needs
to expand into something more
loving and something that
feeds the spirit as well as
feeding or caring for the body.
So the process of
her dying really
was her needing information, her
telling me to get it for her,
and then to use it in
the rest of my career.
While she was
dying, we just spent
lots of time talking
about what would come.
And the illness was so bad she
was actually looking forward
to that process.
And I must say, I was looking
forward to that for her
as well when it had
gotten very bad.
So in the consumption
of all of this material,
I developed sort of a new
spirituality for myself,
as well as one for her, which
assisted her from moving
from this world to the next.
Interestingly enough,
we would talk about ways
that she might
contact me after she
died and half joking but
half serious saying we just
having signals that we
would send to one another.
We had done a lot of other
spiritual kinds of work
together as well.
But we talked about various
things that she might do.
And we talked
about, oh, maybe she
could mess with the electricity
or something really simple.
And she said, oh, no, no.
I want to do something
really sweet after I pass so
that you'll know that I'm here.
And you'll know that life goes
on just as we talked about.
So we came up with
a variety of things.
But she then did go on to die.
And of course, knowing that she
was probably floating around
somewhere but not knowing if
I would hear from her again,
I went to the beach a day
or two after she died.
And I was walking
along the beach,
listening to the CD that
had the music that was going
to be at her memorial service.
And I was playing
it again and again
and crying, and
playing it, and crying,
kept going back to cut number
one on this Eva Cassidy
CD, which is a lovely
CD, by the way.
And after I did it about
three times-- cry, cry, cry--
it kept jumping off
to song number five.
And I put it back to one.
It went to five.
I put it back to one.
Shut it off, put it
on, it went to five.
So I decided to listen to song
five, which was "Songbird."
And in the song, the words
basically are, for you,
there will be no crying.
For you, the sun
will be shining.
And the song goes on
in a very loving way.
That was contact
number one, I believe.
The next day, I was back.
And now I'm having
a conversation
with my dead friend, which
seems like an odd thing to do.
I was saying, you know, we have
this lovely memorial service
which she and I wrote together.
I said, it would
be really lovely
if you sent a butterfly
down or something
to sit on my shoulder.
You know, I could use an
Elisabeth Kübler-Ross kind
of symbolism with that.
And we can discuss it.
And I'm laughing at myself
for talking to my dead friend.
And I forgot about it.
A few hours went by.
I left that beach, drove
by another beach on the way
to my house.
And a yellow butterfly with
a black spot on each wing
landed on my windshield wiper.
And it fluttered at me
through my windshield
all the way home, about
8 miles to my house.
I went in my garage, closed the
door, went in, put my hand out.
The butterfly landed on my hand.
I took it out back,
and it flew away.
A week later, I'm
out vacuuming my pool
and doing some yard work.
And a now brown butterfly
with orange spots on the side
landed on my shoe, stayed
there five minutes, 10 minutes,
still there, climbing
up my leg now.
I'm kind of, at this point,
having a little conversation
with who I assume has
been sending me things.
The butterfly did, in fact,
stay with me, now on my thigh,
for about another 15 minutes,
then vanished into my house
and was gone to
never be seen again.
There have been several
other of these stories
and several other events.
But the bottom
line in all of this
is that she is still
around and that she
has come back in many
different ways to show me that.
And I just find
that so comforting.
And I find that so comforting
in my position as a doctor
that I can help people in
a whole different way now--
that it doesn't really end.
And that's really all.
Just feeling that, knowing it,
having her sent her butterflies
to me made it clear to me that
I must do something with this.
She told me I did.
She's sending me butterflies.
I mean, she really
wants this to happen.
And I feel that I will do my
best to do that for my friend
and for myself.
It's going to change my career,
certainly from emergency room,
probably to terminal
care situation, where
I can hope to convey to people
that, although they may have
a terminal illness, that
their life isn't over
and that their life
will never be over.
And that's a very
comforting, healing,
spiritually healing thing for
the person both who is dying
and for their family and
for everybody involved.
And it's changed me completely.
>> I'm a registered nurse.
And I'm also a
certified hypnotherapist
and an instructor
in hypnotherapy.
I'm from Missouri.
And I would like to talk
to you about my soul story.
In September 23, '99,
my husband was killed
in an automobile accident.
I had been given a premonition
prior to that in July
that he would be dying
before the end of the year.
This was a new
experience for me.
I had not had that type
of an experience before.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was driving down the road.
And suddenly, it was as if
someone sat beside me and said,
you're going to lose him soon.
He won't finish
the year with you.
It's going to be
tough for a while,
but you're going to be OK.
Since this was a totally
new experience for me,
I was very upset.
I pulled over to
the side of the road
more because of this
phenomenon that just had
happened than anything else.
I kind of blew it off and got
back to work and on the way.
My husband flew in July,
had to make a flight.
And I was concerned about
that, talked to him about it.
He came back.
He was fine, so I blew it off.
In September, he was hit by
two carloads of kids drag
racing down a hilly back road.
It is quite devastating
to kiss somebody goodbye
and never see them again
when you have assumed
that you're going to spend
the rest of your life
with that person.
The grieving process took
me about a year and a half.
One of the things that
made it easier was we
had a very good relationship.
And interestingly enough, about
10 years prior to his death,
he was worried about me
getting killed in an automobile
accident because I'm
on the highway so much.
And he asked that every
time we left each other,
even if it was just to run
to the convenience store,
that we would say goodbye
as if we might not
see each other again.
And we started that about
10 years before his death
happened.
His death was the
beginning of a huge opening
in my spiritual life.
Since then, my husband
has visited many times,
came first in forms of smelling
cigarette smoke in the house.
He was a smoker.
That would be the first
signal that he was there.
I began to ask other people to
understand what was happening.
He then came to me
in a dream one night
and introduced me to the next
man that would be in my life.
My husband said to me,
this is the next person
that will be in your life and
assist you with your journey
ahead.
He gave me an image,
a very vivid picture
of this person at an older
age, at a younger age.
And then there was the image of
a young Native American Indian
sitting on a horse on a hill.
This man had long
brown hair, wore pants,
but didn't have a shirt on.
And he had a huge
birthmark on his chest.
My husband in the dream
state then said to me,
I was here to help
you in the time
that you needed with
raising the children,
the other technical
parts of living.
This man is now going to help
you with your spiritual journey
ahead.
When I awoke that
morning, I really
just thought, wasn't that
an interesting experience,
and didn't pay much
attention to it.
I put my glasses on,
took my wedding ring off
the side of the
table, and put it on.
And as I walked
out of the bedroom,
I noticed something was
wrong with my wedding band.
And as I looked down, it was
rather a large wedding band.
And it had been broke in two.
It just snapped completely
in two at the base of it.
And it was fine when I
went to bed at night.
By February, I met this person.
It's the very same person.
And he also has a
birthmark on his chest
that was shown to
me in the vision.
Since then, I am able
to do channeling.
I am open very easily
to the universe
and receiving lots of spiritual
information and guidance.
It's been absolutely a
wonderful growth experience.
I'm very fortunate
that I had 27 years
with a very wonderful person.
And now I get to move forward
into my spiritual growth
with the universe and proceed
in learning the knowledge that's
there for me.
I am so far now from the
person I was several years ago.
I do not practice nursing
full-time anymore.
I am a hypnotherapist now.
I was very analytical
in my thinking
and would have never
believed any of this.
Through hypnosis,
that was the beginning
of opening my subconscious.
And by opening the
subconscious, it's
as if then I was able to begin
to receive the information that
was there for me
in the universe.
I now enjoy every moment.
I now live in the moment more.
I don't assume that I can stop
and smell that flower tomorrow,
because that flower may
not be there tomorrow.
So I enjoy the simple
pleasures of life
far more than I ever did before.
I feel there is no
such thing as death,
that there is
simply a transition
to different levels of energy.
It's given me an
awareness and an insight
that gives me peace and an inner
calm that I didn't have before.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There was a very dear
friend of mine, Katherine.
And we had just finished
a weekend workshop
that focused on living
with the things that
are hard in your life.
And we were cleaning up my home
when Katherine had a headache.
And I looked at her, and she
had a brain aneurysm burst.
And I drove her to the hospital.
She died in the car, in the
ambulance a couple of times.
We eventually got an
ambulance and was resuscitated
and then went into a coma.
And my initial reaction
to all of that--
because I had been trained
in a lot of shamanic healing,
and it was just a
gut reaction-- was
to grab her and hang onto her
with everything that I had.
And that's what I did.
I just didn't want
to let her go.
And she was in a
coma for five weeks.
And we waited, and we prayed.
And we waited.
And then the
hospital chaplain had
came and said that we needed
to take her off the respirator,
that she wasn't going to come
to, that 80% of her brain
had been flooded with blood.
So even if she, did she would
be incapable of doing anything.
And I went out and sat in
the local park and meditated.
And I had this very strong
sense the whole time
of being connected to Katherine.
And I saw her in my mind's eye.
And I said to her,
they want to turn off
the respirator, Katherine.
What do you want to do?
And she said, give me 24 hours.
So I told her
husband, Roger, this.
And he told the chaplain
we need 24 hours set aside.
And the next day, Katherine
came out of the coma.
So when she came
out of the coma,
there was a moment of thinking,
everything was exactly
as it had been,
that she was going
to be 100% who she had been
in every way, shape, and form.
And of course, when they
took the respirator out
and she could
speak, we discovered
that she could recognize
her mother and myself.
She didn't recognize
her husband.
She knew all the prayers and all
the chants we had ever learned.
She didn't know how to use
a toothbrush or a spoon.
And she's had a
very long struggle
of patching together her memory
of learning to walk again.
She's partially paralyzed.
I certainly had an enormous
amount of ambivalence
about whether I had done
Katharine any favor.
The doctors were very
clear that had she
been on the road,
which was where
she was headed or whatnot,
that she would have died--
that given the circumstances
of the moment and my being
there, that that was
why she had lived.
Watching her struggle, I
had incredible ambivalence
about whether I had
done her any favor.
She's very clear.
She is happy for every
day that she's alive.
And she's very clear that
she chose to be alive.
She has very clear memories
of those conversations
we had when she was in a coma
and I would meditate and speak
to her.
That she remembers
clear as a bell.
Being with Katherine when she
went through the brain aneurysm
was a kind of abrupt awakening.
When someone close
to you or you has
a very close call with death
or gets a fatal prognosis,
it's a reminder of
what we don't know.
I don't know if this is my
last 30 seconds before a brain
aneurysm burst for me.
I have no idea.
We didn't know.
Katherine and I were standing
in the kitchen chatting.
Everything was the way
it had been for years.
There's no way to know.
And so to live your
life fully-- and also
that there are no deals.
A number of people
said to me, well,
what do you think Katherine
did that brought this
into her life?
And I just want to say,
that's a crazy kind of notion.
We can't possibly
know what causes
something like this, whether
purely physical or otherwise.
We can say what we've
learned from it.
And what I've learned is
that there are no deals.
If you are doing spiritual
work, a spiritual practice
in the hopes that the universe
will reward you with safety
from tragedy, it's an illusion.
It's a fantasy.
Life includes suffering.
It includes unexpected tragedy.
And what a spiritual
practice and path does
is help you expand
and hold all of it.
But you don't miss
parts of it then.
You don't get exempted from
certain personal tragedies.
That's still going to come to
you like it does to everyone.
[MUSIC PLAYING]